On 28 September 2018, a shallow, large earthquake struck in the neck of the Minahasa Peninsula, Indonesia, with its epicentre located in the mountainous Donggala Regency, Central Sulawesi. The magnitude 7.5 quake was located 77 km (48 mi) away from the provincial capital Palu and was felt as far away as Samarinda on East Kalimantan and also in Tawau, Malaysia. This event was preceded by a sequence of foreshocks, the largest of which was a magnitude 6,1 tremor that occurred earlier that day. Following the mainshock, a tsunami alert was issued for the nearby Makassar Strait, but was called off half an hour later. A localised tsunami struck Palu, sweeping shore-lying houses and buildings on its way. The combined effects of the earthquake and tsunami led to the deaths of an estimated 4340 people. This makes it the deadliest earthquake to strike the country since the 2006 Yogyakarta earthquake, as well as the deadliest earthquake worldwide in 2018, surpassing the previous earthquake that struck Lombok a few months earlier, killing more than 500. The Indonesian Agency for Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysics (BMKG) confirmed that a tsunami had been triggered, with its height reaching an estimated maximum of 4 to 7 metres (13 to 23 ft), striking the settlements of Palu, Donggala and Mamuju along its path. A tsunami warning was issued in Palu and Donggala at 18:07 WITA. Warnings were sent via SMS by the Indonesian Ministry of Communication and Information. Residents of Donggala were told to expect tsunamis with heights of 0.5 to 3 metres, while residents in Palu were told to expect tsunamis with heights of less than 0,5 metres. The tsunami, however, struck higher than expected. Residents of Palu reported waves with heights of more than 2 metres while several others stated that the waves managed to reach the second floor. On 11 October, the Indonesian Government decided to stop the search and rescue operation in Petobo, Balaroa and Jono Oge. The Governor of Central Sulawesi Longki Djanggola agreed to build memorial park in Petobo, Balaroa and Jono Oge to commemorate thousands of victims who were killed in the disaster. Ministry of Research, Technology, and Higher Education Mohamad Nasir stated that every college students in Palu who were affected by the disaster would be given scholarship from the government. 38 state universities in Indonesia also offered to the affected college students to temporarily study in their university. The CEO of Google, Sundar Pichai, stated that Google would donate a total of $1 million for the relief effort and would activate the SOS alert in Palu and Donggala. Apple Inc also offered to provide financial aid. Both WhatsApp and Facebook donated $1 million to the government of Indonesia. The Spanish Government sent 255 tents worth of €265000 euros and stated that it had allocated a total of €200000 euros through the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) and €100000 through non-governmental organization Save the Children. Turkish Government sent two Hercules C-130 aircraft carrying 1000 sleeping bags, 250 tents and Turkish Red Crescent personnel.